content/blocks/door.md, before:

---
title: Interior Door
type: docs
params:
    images:
      - blocks/images/tardis_interior_door.png
---

![Image of TTCapsule Interior Door](images/tardis_interior_door.png)

The TARDIS Interior Door is a vital part of the TARDIS, much like the [TARDIS Console](../console), which can be interacted with by a player. You’ll need this to exit your TARDIS, as it’s the barrier between the exterior world and your TARDIS interior. TARDIS doors can be mined and placed through-out the interior wherever the player requires. The door cannot be broken by hand and must be mined with a pickaxe.
## How Do I Create An Interior Door?
Unlike the [TARDIS Console](../console), it is breakable and movable by the player in survival. It's crafted with the recipe in a crafting table below:

![TARDIS Interior Door Recipe](images/interior_door/recipe.png)

## How do I use the Interior Door?
Interacting with the **Interior Door** will change its state, open -> half, half -> both, and both -> closed depending on the door type. If you sneak and interact with the door, it will close it immediately regardless of its open state, and vice versa.

Interacting with the **Interior Door** with a **Linked Key (any type)** will lock the TARDIS and close the **TARDIS Door** if it was open. Interacting with it again will unlock it, but not reopen it.

If you have the **Gold, Netherite & Classic Key** Snapping your fingers (the default keybind is "**V**") will open the **TARDIS Door** however, this requires loyalty.

Opening the **Interior Door** while in flight will cause all living entities(including players) inside the **TARDIS Interior** to be sucked towards the door, sent into the vortex, and dropped out where the TARDIS decides to drop them.

When you're in flight and are near the **Interior Door** you can hear the vortex! When landed (if there's lava or water infront of the TARDIS) you can hear bubbling noises! This also happens if it's raining outside. <br>During flight, you can see the Time Vortex (this is enabled in AIT’s config, using the command /ait-config. You can change what the vortex looks like in the monitor by pressing the buttons next to “hum”). For this, it is recommended you turn on the shields so you don’t get pulled out, and if you disable Protocol 116 (auto-pilot) your TARDIS will spin in the vortex due to the speed you’re going at. 

![Police Box Interior Door](images/interior_door/policebox_interior_door.png)

{{< callout type="info" >}}
  The **Interior Door** does not emit a redstone signal, but the TARDIS' exterior does.
{{< /callout >}}

Commit message:

fix various issues (extend for details)
Broken links and formatting, spelling, grammar, wording, capitalization, etc.
Overhauled the semantic content of the Monitor and Wall Monitor pages, due to 
outdated information.

content/blocks/door.md, after:

---
title: Interior Door
type: docs
params:
    images:
      - blocks/images/tardis_interior_door.png
---

![Image of the TTCapsule Interior Door](images/tardis_interior_door.png)

The Interior Door is a vital part of the TARDIS, much like the [Console](./console), which can be interacted with by a player. You’ll need this to exit your TARDIS, as it’s the barrier between the exterior world and your TARDIS interior. Interior Doors can be mined and placed through-out the interior wherever the player requires. It cannot be broken by hand but must be mined with a pickaxe.

## How Do I Create An Interior Door?
Unlike the [Console](./console), it is breakable and movable by the player in survival. It's crafted with the recipe in a crafting table as shown below:

![Image of the recipe](./images/interior_door/recipe.png)

## How Do I Use the Interior Door?
Interacting with the **Interior Door** will cycle through its states: closed -> half open, half open -> both open, and both open -> closed, depending on the door type. If you sneak and interact with the door, it will open or close it fully (regardless of its state).

Using a **linked Key** (of any type) on the **Interior Door** will close and lock it. Using the key on it again will unlock (but not open) it.

If you have a **Gold, Netherite or Classic Key**n then snapping your fingers (the default keybind is "**V**") will open the **door**. However, this requires a certain loyalty rank.

Opening the **Interior Door** during flight will cause all living entities (including players) inside the **TARDIS** to be sucked towards the door, sending them into the Vortex, which eventually drop them out in a random dimension and location.

When landed and standing close to the **Interior Door**, you can hear various sounds depending on what is on the outside. If there is lava or water in-front of the door, you'll hear their characteristic sounds. If it rains outside, you can hear that as well.

While the doors are open during flight you can also see the Time Vortex. (This is enabled by default, but can be toggled via  AIT’s config by using the command `/ait-config`.
You can change what the vortex looks like in the monitor by pressing the buttons next to “hum”.
<br>To take a look at the Vortex without getting sucked out the door, it is recommended you turn on the shields before opening the door. And if you disable the **Stabiliser Control** (autopilot), your TARDIS will spin in the Vortex (due to the flight not being stabilised).

![Image of the Police Box Interior Door](./images/interior_door/policebox_interior_door.png)

{{< callout type="info" >}}
  The **Interior Door** does not emit a redstone signal, but the TARDIS' exterior does.
{{< /callout >}}
